# Problem  26b.
Let \(S\) be a semigroup with an element \(e\) such that \(ea = a = ae\) for all
\(a \in S\). Show that \(e\) is unique.

---

## Proof
Let \(e_1, e_2 \in S\) and let them have the identity element property, that is:
\[e_1a=a=ae_1\] \[e_2a=a=ae_2\]

Thus, by transitivity, we get \(e_1a = e_2a\). Multiplying (in the group product sense) both side by \(a^{-1}\) from the right, we get 
<!-- \[(e_1a)a^{-1} = (e_2a)a^{-1} \iff e_1(aa^{-1}) = e_2(aa^{-1}) \iff e_1e = e_2e \iff e_1 = e_2\] -->

\[
\begin{align}    
(e_1a)a^{-1} = (e_2a)a^{-1} & \iff e_1(aa^{-1}) = e_2(aa^{-1}) \\
                            & \iff e_1e = e_2e \\
                            & \iff e_1 = e_2
\end{align}
\]


---
We have shown that if there are two elements with the identity element property, they have to be the same element, the proof is complete.<div align="right">\(\square\)</div>

## Additional thoughts
Admittedly, I solved this using the cancellation law, but the book never proves the cancellation law of groups. Here is [a link to the proof](https://math.stackexchange.com/questions/1797877/by-cancellation-in-group-theory#:~:text=The%20cancellation%20property%20of%20groups,both%20sides%20of%20the%20equation.). When I self-study I start questioning the most basic steps, which I often find to be a bad habit. Here, I questioned why can we even multiply the equation with an element of the group. I've proven and convinced myself of this at some point, so I can't bring myself to do it again. [Here is an answer to this question as well](https://math.stackexchange.com/questions/3402885/group-theory-am-i-allowed-to-multiply-both-sides-of-an-equation-with-the-same)--it's nice to be reminded that we are dealing with functions; however obvious it may be, I keep losing that context while in the group/algebra context. And yes this can be proven by contradiction. Every time I see an opportunity to prove by contradiction I remember Andrej Bauer (I believe) saying that we should practice logical hygiene, and I try proving the thing directly.