# Problem  35a.

Show that a nonempty subset \( H \) of a group \( G \) is a subgroup of \( G \) if and only if \( a, b \in H \) implies \( ab^{-1} \in H \).

---

## Proof
### "\(\implies \)" Assume \(H\) is subgroup of \(G\)
This means that the following is true:

<!-- subgroup axioms -->
\[ a \in H \implies a^{-1} \in H \quad (1)\]\[ a, b \in H \implies ab \in H \quad (2)\]

We need to show \( a, b \in H \) implies \( ab^{-1} \in H \).
Let \(a, b \in H \). By \((1)\) we have \(b^{-1} \in H\), that is \(a, b^{-1} \in H\). Now, by \((2)\), this implies that \(ab^{-1} \in H\), which is what we needed to show.

### "\(\Longleftarrow\)" Assume \( a, b \in H \) implies \( ab^{-1} \in H \)

We want to show that \( H \) is a subgroup of \( G \). To do this, we need to show that:

\[ a \in H \implies a^{-1} \in H \quad (1)\]\[ a, b \in H \implies ab \in H \quad (2)\]

##### Proof for \((1)\): \( a \in H \implies a^{-1} \in H \)

Let \( a \in H \). By our assumption, for \( b = a \), we get:

\[
aa^{-1} \in H,
\]

and because \(aa^{-1} = e\) we have shown that the identity element \( e \) is in \( H \). Now, since \( e, a \in H \), again using the assumption, we get:

\[
ea^{-1} \in H
\]

Thus, we have shown that \( a \in H \implies a^{-1} \in H \), and the proof for (1) is complete.

##### Proof for \((2)\): \( a, b \in H \implies ab \in H \)

Let \( a, b \in H \). By (1), we know that \( b \in H \implies b^{-1} \in H \). Now, since \( a, b^{-1} \in H \), by the starting assumption, we get:

\[
a(b^{-1})^{-1} \in H
\]

and since \(a(b^{-1})^{-1} = ab\), we have that \(ab \in H\). Thus, we have shown that \( a, b \in H \implies ab \in H \), and the proof for (2) is complete.

Since (1) and (2) are true, \( H \) is indeed a subgroup of \( G \), and the statement is proven.

---

We proved both directions, the proof is complete. <div align="right">\(\square\)</div>
<!-- \[\square\] -->

## Additional thoughts
I had one doubt with this proof from which I learned something. I started this problem just playing around with the assumptions. The "\(\implies\)" direction was very straightforward. For the "\(\Longleftarrow\)" direction I again just started playing with the given assumption, trying to see if something will pop up. Along the way I noticed I could prove \(a^{-1} \in H \) if \(e, a \in H \). But to do that I needed to show that \(e\) is in \(H\). Then as I was moving symbols around, I realised that I can set \(b = a\) and use the assumption to show that \(e \in H\). While I was pretty sure I can set \(b=a\) due to my prior experience with proofs, I still had some doubts. I thought, there is no \(b \neq a\) condition, so who says I can't put \(b = a \)? I found this [answer](https://math.stackexchange.com/questions/3162033/h-is-a-subgroup-of-g-iff-a-b-in-h-implies-ab-1-in-h) on MSE, here they brought to my attention the actual name of this rule of inference that allows us to to set \(a = x, b = y\) for whatever \(x, y \in H\). Also note that I used the same letters for the assumption and in the reasoning, the linked answer does it better by introducing the variable \(x\). Right now I'm too lazy to change this in my proof, so I leave it as it is.